In this video,
we will explore how to estimate the average return using confidence interval.
Here is a sample of the log return of a stock price of Apple.
We can get average return in this sample.
We can sample mean to estimate the real average return,
which is population mean in our example.
We want to do more about estimation.
Intuitionally, if a sample is a good representative of the population,
the population mean should be close to sample mean.
It is plausible to say that the population mean is in a range with sample mean centered.
Hence, our task in this video is to estimate
population mean using interval with lower and upper bound.
To start with, we need to standardize sample mean
because different sample has different mean and a standard deviation.
We have learned that distribution of sample mean is normal in our last video.
We can standardize sample mean by minus it's mean,
which is identical to population mean and then divided by its standard deviation,
which is the standard deviation of population divided by square root of sample size.
After standardization, it'll become standard normal,
and follows Z-distribution.
For Z-distribution, it is not difficult to find the two quantities;
Z Alpha over two,
and Z, one minus Alpha over two such that in the middle,
the probability is one minus Alpha.
Since Z is symmetric with respect to zero,
the magnitudes of these two quantiles are the same except the sign.
We have Z_1 minus Alpha over two equal to negative Z Alpha over two.
Since the standardization form of sample mean is also Z,
then we have this equation.
With some calculation in the parenthesis,
we can have this form,
which explicitly gives the upper and lower bounds for population mean.
Notice that Sigma is the population standard deviation,
which is usually unknown.
In practice, we can replace it using
the sample standard deviation if sample size is large enough.
The interval here, for Mu is called confidence interval at the level of one minus Alpha.
In our problems, to build the interval for the average return,
we need to find quantiles of mean distribution which has been discussed in topic two.
We can use the norm.ppf to get the quantiles.
Here, alpha over two is equal to 0.1,
hence confidence level is 80 percent.
Then we can calculate sample mean and the standard deviation of
sample in which the population standard deviation
is replaced by sample standard deviation.
The 80 percent of confidence interval is printed out.
Average return of Apple stocks falls in this interval with 80 percent chance.
Notice, this interval is on the positive side.
It implies that the average return is very likely to be positive.
In next video, we will discuss another statistical inference tool,
hypothesis testing, which can be applied to detect difference or change of population.